_projects/imprints-in-the-museum.md, before:

---
pid: imprints-in-the-museum
title: Imprints in the Museum
sort_year: 2004
end_date: 2004-12-15
date_range: Aug. 2004 to Dec. 2004
collaborators: Kirsten Boehner, Jennifer Thom-Santelli, Geri Gay, Justin S. Hall,
  Tucker Barrett
blurb: Personalization and social awareness, important aspects in the definition of
  a place, are traditionally overlooked in the design of technology for museums. We
  describe Imprints, a system to enhance the role of visitor participation beyond
  information receiver to active creator of sense of place. 
project_url: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1056808.1056881
label: Imprints in the Museum
order: '22'
collection: projects
layout: project_post
related-links:
  - '<a href="../../assets/images/icaposter.png">Imprints in the Museum: Social Navigation Technology for Participatory Expression</a> (poster)'
image: 'assets/images/imprints.jpg'
---
Personalization and social awareness, important aspects in the definition of
a place, are traditionally overlooked in the design of technology for museums. We
describe Imprints, a system to enhance the role of visitor participation beyond
information receiver to active creator of sense of place. Overall response to the
Imprints system is explored through interviews and log analysis of use. Despite
some usability issues, response to the system was positive, and it was appropriated
for both personalization and awareness of others. The results suggest an opportunity
to introduce technology that plays with the dynamic between private expression and
public presence in the traditional environment of the art museum.

<img src="../../assets/images/chimovie.gif" width="480px"/>

## Responsibilities:

* built Java drawing application to allow study participants to create custom avatars
* conducted observational research of system in use in the museum
* co-authored conference paper
* co-design poster

Commit message:

add alt text for images

_projects/imprints-in-the-museum.md, after:

---
pid: imprints-in-the-museum
title: Imprints in the Museum
sort_year: 2004
end_date: 2004-12-15
date_range: Aug. 2004 to Dec. 2004
collaborators: Kirsten Boehner, Jennifer Thom-Santelli, Geri Gay, Justin S. Hall,
  Tucker Barrett
blurb: Personalization and social awareness, important aspects in the definition of
  a place, are traditionally overlooked in the design of technology for museums. We
  describe Imprints, a system to enhance the role of visitor participation beyond
  information receiver to active creator of sense of place. 
project_url: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1056808.1056881
label: Imprints in the Museum
order: '22'
collection: projects
layout: project_post
related-links:
  - '<a href="../../assets/images/icaposter.png">Imprints in the Museum: Social Navigation Technology for Participatory Expression</a> (poster)'
image: 'assets/images/imprints.jpg'
image_alt: A Java drawing program with a grid of background images on the left and a drawing canvas on the right. An apple with a smiley face has been drawn inside a picture frame.
---
Personalization and social awareness, important aspects in the definition of
a place, are traditionally overlooked in the design of technology for museums. We
describe Imprints, a system to enhance the role of visitor participation beyond
information receiver to active creator of sense of place. Overall response to the
Imprints system is explored through interviews and log analysis of use. Despite
some usability issues, response to the system was positive, and it was appropriated
for both personalization and awareness of others. The results suggest an opportunity
to introduce technology that plays with the dynamic between private expression and
public presence in the traditional environment of the art museum.

<img src="../../assets/images/chimovie.gif" width="480px"/>

## Responsibilities:

* built Java drawing application to allow study participants to create custom avatars
* conducted observational research of system in use in the museum
* co-authored conference paper
* co-design poster
